                  THE HARE AND THE ELEPHANT 

   Once upon a time . . . in the Indian jungle, lived a young elephant whose 
playmate was a very large hare. In spite of the difference in size, they were 
great friends and had fun playing strange guessing games. One day, the hare 
said to his chum:
   "Which of us is bigger: you or me?" At that silly question, the little 
elephant nearly choked on his banana.
   "You must be joking!" he exclaimed. "Why, even on tiptoe, you re not as 
high as my knee!" But the hare went on:
   "That's what you think! Since I say that I'm bigger than you, we need a 
judge. Don't you agree?"
   "Oh, yes," said the elephant in surprise.
   "Well, let's go along to the village and see what the Humans have to say. 
They're the cleverest of all the animals, and the best judges!" As they 
reached the village, they met some of the villagers.
   "Look at that young elephant! Isn't he small?" folk remarked as the unusual
couple strolled by.
   "Yes, he is indeed! But he'll soon grow up," said others. Then somebody 
noticed the hare. 
   "What a huge hare!" they all cried. Now, the hare tried to keep in front of
 elephant and puffed out his chest. As he passed, all the villagers exclaimed:
   "Look at his paws! And those ears! That's the biggest hare we've ever 
seen!" When he heard this, the hare turned to his friend, saying, 
   "We can go home now! That's settled! I'm huge and you're tiny!" The 
elephant tossed his heavy head. At a loss for words, he knew the hare had won 
by low cunning. But back on the jungle path, he lifted his foot and said to 
the hare, walking ahead, "Get out of my way before a tiny elephant crushes a 
big hare like you!"

                   THE HARE AND THE PORCUPINE 

   Once upon a time . . . an old porcupine lived in a large wood with his twin
sons. Apples were their favourite dish, but the youngsters sometimes raided a 
neighbouring vegetable plot for the turnips Dad loved to munch. One day, one 
of the young porcupines set off as usual to fetch the turnips. Like all 
porcupines, he was a slow walker, and he had just reached a large cabbage, 
when from behind the leaves, out popped a hare.
   "So you have arrived at last!" said the hare. "I've been watching you for 
half an hour. Do you always dawdle? I hope you're quicker at eating, or it 
will take you a year to finish the turnips!" Instead of going into a huff at 
being teased, the porcupine decided to get his own back by being very crafty.
   Slow on his feet but a quick thinker, he rapidly hit on a plan. So the hare
sneered at the slow porcupine, did he? Well, the hare's own turn of speed would
be his downfall!
   "I can run faster than you if I try," said the porcuplne "Ha! Ha!" the hare
shrieked with laughter, raising a large paw. "You can't compete with this! My
grandad was the speediest hare of his day. He even won a gold penny. He used 
to be my coach. And you tell me you can run faster than me? Well, I bet my 
grandad's gold penny that I can win without even trying!"
   The porcupine paid little heed to the hare's boastful words and quietly 
acccepted the challenge. "I'll meet you tomorrow down at the ploughed field. 
We'll race in parallel furrows. And see wins!"
   The hare went away laughing.
   "Better stay here all night! You'll never get home and back in time for the
race!" he told the porcupine. The porcupine, however, had a bright idea. When
he arrived home, he told his twin brother what had happened. Just before dawn
next day, he gave his instructions, and off they set for the field. Hare 
appeared, rudely remarking: "I'll take off my jacket so I can run faster!"
   Ready! Steady! Go! And in a flash, the hare streaked to the other end of 
the field. There, waiting for him was a porcupine, which tesingly said:
   "Rather late, aren't you? I've been here for ages!" Gasping and so 
breathless his throat was dry, the hare whispered: "Let's try again!"
   "All right," agreed the porcupine, "we'll run the race again." Never in all
his life had the hare run so fast. Not even with the hounds snapping at his 
heels. But every time he reached the other end of the ploughed field, what did
he flnd but the porcupine, who laughingly  exclaimed: "What? Late again? I 
keep  on getting here first!" Racing up and down the field the hare sped, 
trying to beat the porcupine. His legs grew terribly tired and he began to 
sag. And every time he came to the end of the field there stood a porcupine
calling himself the winner.
   "Perhaps I ought to mention, friend hare, that my grandad was the fastest
porcupine of his day. He didn't win a gold penny, but he won apples, and after
the race, he ate them. But I don't want apples. I'd rather have the nice gold 
penny you promised me!" said one of the porcupine twins.
   The hare slid to the ground, dead tired. His head was spinning and his legs
felt like rubber.
   "This race is the end of me! I shall die here in this field, where I really
believed I was a sprinter! The shame of it! What a disgrace!" The hare 
staggered home, hot and sticky, to fetch the gold penny that he had never for 
a moment ever imagined he would lose. His eyes brimming with tears, he handed 
it over to the porcupines. 
   "Thank goodness my grandad isn't alive to see this!" he said. "Whatever 
would he say? After all his coaching, here I am, beaten by a porcupine!"
   That evening, a party was held at the porcupines' house. The twins danced 
triumphantly in turn, waving aloft the gold penny. Father Porcupine brought 
out his old accordion for the special occasion, and the fun went on all night.
 As luck would have it, the hare never did find out the secret of how the race
had been rigged. Which was just as well! . . .

                    THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE

   Once upon a time .... there was a hare who, boasting how he could run 
faster than anyone else, was forever teasing tortoise for its slowness. Then 
one day, the irate tortoise answered back: "Who do you think you are? There's 
no denying you're swift, but even you can be beaten!" The hare squealed with 
laughter.
   "Beaten in a race? By whom? Not you, surely! I bet there's nobody in the 
world that can win against me, I'm so speedy. Now, why don't you try?"
   Annoyed by such bragging, the tortoise accepted the challenge. A course was
planned, and next day at dawn they stood at the startiny line. The hare yawned
sleepily as the meek tortoise trudged slowly off. When the hare saw how 
painfully slow his rival was, he decided, half asleep on his feet, to have a 
quick nap. "Take your time!" he said. "I'll have forty winks and catch up with
you in a minute."
   The hare woke with a start from a fitful sleep and gazed round, looking for
the tortoise. But the creature was only a short distance away, having barely 
covered a third of the course. Breathing a sigh of relief, the hare decided he
might as well have breakfast too, and off he went to munch some cabbages he 
had noticed in a nearby field. But the heavy meal and the hot sun made his 
eyelids droop. With a careless glance at the tortoise, now halfway along the 
course, he decided to have another snooze before flashing past the winning 
post. And smiling at the thought of the look on the tortoise's face when it 
saw the hare speed by, he fell fast asleep and was soon snoring happily. The 
sun started to sink, below the horizon, and the tortoise, who had been 
plodding towards the winning post since morning, was scarcely a yard from the 
finish. At that very point, the hare woke with a jolt. He could see the 
tortoise a speck in the distance and away he dashed. He leapt and bounded at a
great rate, his tongue lolling, and gasping for breath. Just a little more and
he'd be first at the finish. But the hare's last leap was just too late, for
the tortoise had beaten him to the winning post. Poor hare! Tired and in 
disgrace, he slumped down beside the tortoise who was silently smiling at him.
   "Slowly does it every time!" he said.

